VAULT-23335: Audit - Exclusion Docs (Draft) (#26696)
hashicorp/vault: website/content/docs/enterprise/audit/exclusion.mdx

---
layout: docs
page_title: Exclusion syntax for audit results
description: >-
  Learn about the behavior and syntax for excluding audit data in Vault Enterprise.
---

# Exclusion syntax for audit results

@include 'alerts/enterprise-only.mdx'

As of Vault 1.18.0, you can enable audit devices with an `exclude` option to exclude

> particular fields in an audit entry, written to a particular audit log and fine-tune
> your auditing process.

Author: @schavis would this be acceptable? 

```suggestion
particular fields in an audit entry that is written to a particular audit log, and fine-tune
your auditing process.
```

<Warning title="Proceed with caution">

  Excluding audit entry fields is an advanced feature. Use of exclusion settings
  could lead to missing data in your audit logs.

  **Always** test your audit configuration in a non-production environment
  before deploying exclusions to production. Read the
  [Vault security model](/vault/docs/internals/security) and
  [filtering overview](/vault/docs/concepts/filtering) to familiarize yourself
  with Vault auditing and filtering basics before enabling audit devices that use
  exclusions.

</Warning>

> Once you enable an audit device with exclusions, every audit entry Vault sends to

Reviewer: `every audit entry Vault` might take paraphrasing a little bit for easy reading.

when matched Vault will attempt to remove values identified by `fields`.
- `fields` `(string[] <required>)` - collection of fields in the audit entry to exclude,
identified using [JSON pointer](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6901) syntax.

```json
[
  {
    "condition": "",
    "fields": [ "" ]
  }
]
```

Each `condition` is compared against the same golden source, immutable audit entry.
This means excluding a particular field in a preceding exclusion, won't impact a
subsequent condition evaluation.

### Exclusion examples

#### Exclude response data (when present)

This example does not supply a condition which means the specified fields will be
excluded from any audit entry that contains them.

```json
[
  {
    "fields": [ "/response/data" ]
  }
]
```

#### Exclude request data (when present) for transit mounts

This example uses a condition to restrict exclusion of the request data field only to
audit entries with a mount type of `transit`.

```json
[
  {
    "condition": "\"/request/mount_type\" == transit",
    "fields": [ "/request/data" ]
  }
]
```
#### Multiple exclusions

> This example uses multiple exclusions to exclude:
> 
> * `data` from both the request and response when the mount type is `transit`.
> * `entity_id` from requests where the `/auth/client_token` in the entry matches `hmac` and then more than one other character.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use multiple JSON blocks to exclude:

* `data` from both the request and response when the mount type is `transit`.
* `entity_id` from requests where the `/auth/client_token` starts with `hmac`
  followed by at least one other character.
```

It's worth clarifying if `\"hmac.+\" only matches to strings that *start* with "hmac" or any string that contains "hmac" with at least one character after it. I'm assuming the former in the edit, but feel free to adjust the suggestion if it's the latter.

```json
[
  {
    "condition": "\"/request/mount_type\" == transit",
    "fields": [ "/request/data", "/response/data" ]
  },
  {
    "condition":  "\"/auth/client_token\" matches \"hmac.+\"",
    "fields": [ "/auth/entity_id" ]
  }
]
```

## Audit entry structure

> In order to accurately construct `condition` and `fields` the Vault Operator will
> have to understand the structure of the (request/response) audit entry.
> 
> This information can be obtained by reverse engineering the audit logs, however it
> the following can be used to understand the structure in a more proactive way.
> 
> At a high level, there are only request audit entries and response audit entries,
> each of these entries contain different objects such as `auth`, `request` and `response`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To accurately construct `condition` and `fields`, Vault operators need a solid
understanding of their audit entry structures. At a high level, there are only
**request** audit entries and **response** audit entries, but each of these
entries can contain different objects such as `auth`, `request` and `response`.

We strongly encourage operaters to review existing audit logs from a timeframe
of at least 2-4 weeks to better identify appropriate exclusion conditions and
fields.
```

### Request audit entry

```json
{
  "auth": <auth>,
  "error": "",
  "forwarded_from": "",
  "request": <request>,
  "time": "",
  "type": ""
}
```

### Response audit entry

```json
{
  "auth": <auth>,
  "error": "",
  "forwarded_from": "",
  "request": <request>,
  "response": <response>,
  "time": "",
  "type": ""
}
```

### Auth object (`<auth>`)

> Complete with example data to show simple types (`string`, `bool`, `int`), other
> JSON examples which refer to `<auth>` are referring to this object.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following auth object definition includes example data with simple types
(`string`, `bool`, `int`) and used in other JSON examples that include an
`<auth>` object.
```
Style correction: avoid "this" as a pronoun

```json
{
  "accessor": "",
  "client_token": "",
  "display_name": "",
  "entity_created": "",
  "entity_id": "",
  "external_namespace_policies": {
    "allowed": true,
    "granting_policies": [
      {
        "name": "",
        "namespace_id": "",
        "namespace_path": "",
        "type": ""
      }
    ]
  },
  "identity_policies": [
    ""
  ],
  "metadata": {},
  "no_default_policy": false,
  "num_uses": 10,
  "policies": [
    ""
  ],
  "policy_results": {
    "allowed": true,
    "granting_policies": [
      {
        "name": "",
        "namespace_id": "",
        "namespace_path": "",
        "type": ""
      }
    ]
  },
  "remaining_uses": 5,
  "token_policies": [
    ""
  ],
  "token_issue_time": "",
  "token_ttl": 3600,
  "token_type": ""
}
```

### Request object (`<request>`)

> Complete with example data to show simple types (`string`, `bool`, `int`), other
> JSON examples which refer to `<request>` are referring to this object.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following request object definition includes example data with simple types
(`string`, `bool`, `int`) and used in other JSON examples that include an
`<request>` object.
```

```json
{
  "client_certificate_serial_number": "",
  "client_id": "",
  "client_token": "",
  "client_token_accessor": "",
  "data": {},
  "id": "",
  "headers": {},
  "mount_accessor": "",
  "mount_class": "",
  "mount_point": "",
  "mount_type": "",
  "mount_running_version": "",
  "mount_running_sha256": "",
  "mount_is_external_plugin": "",
  "namespace": {
    "id": "",
    "path": ""
  },
  "operation": "",
  "path": "",
  "policy_override": true,
  "remote_address": "",
  "remote_port": 1234,
  "replication_cluster": "",
  "request_uri": "",
  "wrap_ttl": 60
}
```

### Response object (`<response>`)

> Complete with example data to show simple types (`string`, `bool`, `int`), other
> JSON examples which refer to `<response>` are referring to this object.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following response object definition includes example data with simple types
(`string`, `bool`, `int`) and used in other JSON examples that include an
`<response>` object.
```

```json
{
  "auth": <auth>,
  "data": {},
  "headers": {},
  "mount_accessor": "",
  "mount_class": "",
  "mount_is_external_plugin": false,
  "mount_point": "",
  "mount_running_sha256": "",
  "mount_running_plugin_version": "",
  "mount_type": "",
  "redirect": "",
  "secret": {
    "lease_id": ""
  },
  "wrap_info": {
    "accessor": "",
    "creation_path": "",
    "creation_time": "",
    "token": "",
    "ttl": 60,
    "wrapped_accessor": ""
  },
  "warnings": [
    ""
  ]
}
```

> ## JSON schema
> 
> The JSON schema for both request and response audit entries are included below.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

I don't think the section heading is helping here. I'd recommend removing it and bumping the request/response sections to `h2` so they show in the TOC

> ### Request audit entry schema

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Request audit entry schema
```

@include 'audit/request-entry-json-schema.mdx'

> ### Response audit entry schema

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Response audit entry schema
```
